FarmMind Technologies
1	PROBLEM STATEMENT
This smart centralized system will help farmers to take a step into precision agriculture being monitored by wireless sensors in and around their farms. This covers problems like irrigation management, crop maintenance, soil fertility maintenance, crop yield improvement, pesticide management in compliance with good agricultural practices. 
2	WORK FLOW 
The innovation focuses on developing a smart centralized system to control different requirements for a farm per crop being grown. An IoT based system integrates the cloud AI services with that of the hardware and sensors in the farms / fields which constantly stream real-time information to the servers. Depending on various other parameters like humidity, temperature and other meteorological data, predictions of the requirements of the farm is calculated and the hardware device which automatically opens the valves for irrigation / warns the farmer about doing a scheduled check in the localized language is made via SMS. This provides a centralized GIS collection of the soil data allowing extensive research and work by the agricultural scientists to guide the farmers in a given area for the crop they're growing. Simultaneously it provides the data for governments to optimize on the water irrigation routes / canals so that other drought struck areas can ensure water in times of need. The hardware solution consists of various sensors connected to the GSM chip module on board which allows the farmers to irrigate the farms when needed or transmit data to the required scientists/soil experts in the area who could help. 
•	It keeps updating the data base on parameters such as soil temperature, humidity, air temperature, determine frost and heat events, forecast harvest time.
•	It maps the fields from phone using GPS and input field sampling information. 
•	This systems aims for mobile first and cloud first implementation.
•	It integrates pest management system by observing, inspecting, and identifying certain trends in the pests and pesticides. It keeps the track record.
•	Last but not the least, it proposes high yielding plans and best crop management plans even under disasters. 
3	FIELDS ARE THE NEW OFFICES AND DATA IS DRIVING THE TRACTORS 
We are trying to use the emerging Cloud based technologies in AI, machine learning and big data to solve important problems as well as to get the problem notified to the related person in real time. This system allows farmers to monitor and maintain the quality of their farms by sitting at their home just using simple services like SMS in case there is no internet connectivity present in the area or by using the app built for android phones. The hardware is also sending data of the farm to the agricultural scientists who can use it to make data driven decisions. Integrations with the other meteorological information helps to offer the best advice for irrigation. This system can also be used to inform the farmers in a particular area in case of an agricultural outbreak risk in that area. The other solutions include animal breeding and maintaining the data informing the farmers about the required medication needed for the cattle. Mainly focuses on reliable, safety, interoperable, low cost implementation. 

